>> Brian Holt: We are going to
talk about some limitations of
React Server Components, so
I alluded to this earlier,
but actually several times,
that you cannot have
server components be children
of client components.
And I guarantee you that's
going to frustrate you,
because you're going to have times as
like, I have this client component that
has to keep a bunch of state, and somehow
I need to give that state to my server
component that I want to be a server
component so that I can, like, make an SQL
request based on client state or something
like that, and it's just annoying, right?
Like, it's just something
that you want to do and
you cannot do given
the limitations of the system.
And I guess the good news slash
maybe slightly patronizing news is
that you just write it like you used to,
right?
Like if you write it as if you
didn't have React Server Components,
you create an API, you call the API
with the parameters that you want,
they need to call you to do this stuff,
and
return it; that's exactly what
we would have done before.
It's just what you do now, I'm gonna give
you one kind of half workaround that works
sometimes for you, but it's not
gonna work in that particular case.
I just told you where you have some client
states that you need to call te database
with, now you're just gonna have to
do the way that i just described.,
Let's go ahead and hop into it,
let's make another folder called "WhoAmI?
And we're going to create,
inside of there a new file,
and I'm going to call it page.js,
because you have to,
then I'm going to import.
ClientPage from, ./clientpage,
and I'm going to import WhoAmI from,
WhoAmI
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so WhoAmI is going to be a
>> Speaker 2: server component,
>> Brian Holt: and client page,
as you probably guessed,
is going to be a client component.
And I need to get WhoAmI, this one here,
to be a child of client page,
and how do I do that?
Well, we can kinda cheat a little bit,
keep in mind that all of your server
components run essentially before,
and then all the client-side stuff is
always gonna happen after, cause that's
all gonna happen on the client, which
is inherently before the server, right?
So how do we kind of
exploit that a little bit?
The props have to be known, right?
The interface between the client and
the server components,
to be known because the server component
is going to run at essentially like
build time or like at the beginning
of the invocation of the route.
So we can build children beforehand,
right?
So we can pass it in as children,
that'll get pre-rendered, and
then you send that through to be
rendered by the client component.
So let me just demonstrate
what I mean here,
export default async function WhoAmI page.
Okay, and we're going to return
client page with ID equals one,
and then we're going to make a child
of this WhoAmI this is the hack.
This can still be a server component
because this is going to happen at
the same time, this is gonna
happen essentially at build time.
When I say build time, I mean like the
moment that the function is invoked, and
then we can have the client page
just accept that as a child and
then render it out.
So this is still going to
happen before this does, right?
This is just going to be complete, and
this is going to render
out complete markup.
Let's get a little bit further, and
if it still doesn't make sense,
I'm seeing a lot of furrowed brows.
Let's start with,
WhoAmI JS first.WhoAmI.js,
Import async database from promiseqlite3,
and
I want to be able to call the database
here to figure out who this person is.
So it's just going to say async
function get WhoAmI again,
normally take in some ID and
you would actually
detect based on their
session who they are.
We're just going to assume
that they're user one,
I'm going to say const
db equals await async
database Syncdatabase.open./notes Db.
And then you're going to return Db, get,
select star from users where
ID equals question mark,
and then you would normally
put in whatever we need there,
but we're just gonna put one in there for
now.
And then we're gonna say export
default async function WhoAmI,
and we're just going to return,
or we need to the first, so
const user = await getWhoAmI.
And then we'll say return,
>> Brian Holt: diviv, h1 WhoAmI and
you're going to say,p> You
are (user.name), and
your id is (user.id).
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
total server</p> Component,
I want to render this as
a part of my client page.
And let's say I want to be able to do
things like change the username or
something like that from the client page,
so I actually take real user input in
there so you can kind of mix and
match them together using this pattern.
In fact, let's do even just that,
let's go make a client page.js.
>> Brian Holt: We're going to import
an update username that we'll write
here in just a second from
dot slash update username,
and we're going to export default
function, client, WhoAmI page.
And we're going to take in children and
ID, okay, and then we're going to
return div children, right?
So it's just going to blindly
render out whatever's in children,
which is going to be our server component,
and then we'll put in a form here as well,
and we'll have an action.
The action will be from update username,
and In here we'll have H2,
enter new username,
and we'll have an input type=text,
name=username Name equals username,
placeholder equals username.
So something like that,
then we'll have another input,
let's see, I mean, you've probably seen
these before, but hidden become or
type equals hidden becomes very
useful with these kind of forms.
If you need to pass more
back to the server, so
I'm just gonna say name equals ID.
And value ecosystem ID, obviously, like,
don't put sensitive information this is
actually going to make it to the client.
In fact, we should have a discussion
about that momentarily,
about why that's very easy to
do with server components.
Well, let's finish this first button type,
people's submit,
yeah, I mean, let's talk about
that momentarily, right here.
Let's say I had like in my WhoAmI,
let's say I had const,
you know, open, AI, secret,
or whatever, right?
Equals process, dot, m dot, open, AI,
secret, or something like that, right?
Let's say this is my key
to call it my ChatGPT
interface with this is a server
component that's very okay.
This is here right now,
but it's really easy,
let's say somewhere someone just says,
Use client, right?
Now this is very much in
danger of being exposive.
This entire thing is going to
make it into my bundle, right?
All of a sudden my OpenAI secret is
now suddenly available in my bundle,
seems problematic, right?
Could be a problem, so
you're essentially one used client away
from database leaks [LAUGH],
which is really problematic.
We're not gonna talk about it today,
and I think it's still in beta,
but there's a react.js tainted,
I think is what they call it, yeah.
So you can essentially say taint this
value, make sure that this never makes it
to the client, so that's what
you would do with these secrets.
You'd say taint this it'll actually, like,
fail your build, or it'll, like, fail or
something like that, like, we detected
that you use this object where you're not
supposed to, or that we detect
the string somewhere, so that,
there it is, experimental taint,
object reference, right?
There's a couple of these APIs for
specifically this reason,
neither here nor there, but
I just wanted to point out, like,
that is something that should be on your
mind when you're doing these is like?
I am like, one secret or
one line away from leaking secrets
>> Speaker 3: it's.
Line you use frequently, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, and, like,
it's very reasonable that you're, like,
looking at a server component later,
gonna go back and say, I probably need to,
like, use state here, use client, right?
>> Speaker 3: If we want
to inspect the build for
these sorts of things that may
be unintentionally passed.
Like, what's the best way for me to, like,
look at my current blob of client code,
or is there not a good way to do that?
>> Brian Holt: I don't know, yeah,
if you figure it out, let me know.
[LAUGH].
>> Speaker 4: So your server component A
is async, you're exporting async function,
and you're calling the database import.
Isn't your bill going to complain about
the fact that your component is async.
>> Brian Holt: Which one
>> Speaker 4: Your WhoAmI for example,
if you change that to be used client,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
>> Speaker 4: It would be silly, hey,
you can't use an async function here, and
you can't use this asynchronous SQL thing
like
>> Brian Holt: Correct
>> Speaker 4: A little bit of protection.
>> Brian Holt: You're right,
you do because this would fail, right?
Because this doesn't work in the browser,
you're correct that async won't work here,
but like, not all of your server
components are going to be async, and
not all of them are going to use things.
Some of them are just gonna be like,
displaying information, right?
So it's it's a thin layer of armor, right?
Or maybe wouldn't rely on it,
I'll put it that way, okay,
we're going to do update username.
Just really quick,
update username.js,and use server,
this has got to happen on the server.
This is another server action import async
database from SQLite and we're going to
import redirect from next navigation.
Because once someone submits this form we
want to navigate them back to the home
page, right?
Export, default.
>> Brian Holt: Async
function update username and
takes in form data and
>> Brian Holt: Console.log Update
>> Brian Holt: Username called with form
data, Username = formdata.get username and
const id = formdata.get.ID.
And then you say,
if I don't have either of those,
if no username or no ID,
you just throw new error.
>> Brian Holt: And, okay, and
then we're just going to read from
the database Const DB equals
await async database,
dot, open, dot, slash notes dB, and
then await dB, dot, run Update users,
set name equal to question mark,
where id equals question mark, and
you do username and id and
then redirect and then redirect to home.
Pretty straightforward,
kind of the same thing, yeah,
I'm really good at writing error messages,
I just want you to know that.
WhoAmI, my name is Brian,
and your ID is one.
What's my new name going to be not Brian,
throw people off, and
you can see you are not Brian.
And if I look at my notes now, you can
see that all this is going to not Brian,
but critical part being here is
that this part, if you remember,
that's still a server component, right?
This part, it's client component,
this is how you can kind of mildly mix and
match them.
You kind of have to reframe
of how these things would
work because it's really tempting to say,
like, I want this child
to be a server component of this client
thing and I want to just pass it in.
If you can figure out how
to reframe the problem so
that you're just passing in server
components to client components,
then you can take advantage of
this pattern, and if you can't,
then you just got to do use useEffect or
React Query or something like that.
Yeah, I'm going to say this is the thing
that annoys me the most about writing lots
of React Server Components, this pattern,
it's a constant source of minor friction.
Yeah, if you want to do something where
it is governed, like you do want to pass
client state back into a server component
somehow you got to refresh the page or
like, like re navigate yourself to
the page so that the server runs again.
Not a great pattern most of the time,
right?
Most times you're just going to say,
make a request from the client.
>> Speaker 5: So in the client page.js,
we just made,
that's the client component, right?
You don't need to use
the useClient on that one?
>> Brian Holt: That's funny,
I didn't, but I was supposed to,
I mean, exactly to this point, right?
You come to these places where it
actually doesn't matter, yeah,
cause I originally, had this form is like
you state and stuff like that I realized
later afterwards I didn't need to, but
yeah, to your point, this actually,
this all could be just server components,
but I wanted to show you, like,
when you have this problem of them living
side by side, this is how you do it.
That's funny, unintentional bugs there,
which actually, maybe I'm so
good at programming that my
brain just wouldn't let me do
the inefficient way of doing it,
that's what I'm gonna tell myself.